# プロジェクト AMTRUNK 操作レビュー

**発信者（発）:** Chief of Station, JMWAVE  
**受信者（着）:** Chief, Special Affairs Staff  
**日時:** 31 March 1963  

ACTION: Request Headquarters decision on continuation or termination of Project AMTRUNK.

1. Attached herewith is an operational review of and progress report on the AMTRUNK team for the period of 4 through 31 March. Station views on the operation are summarized below.

2. The AMTRUNK operation has the following disadvantages or weaknesses:

A. The AMTRUNKers admit to being anti-KUBARK and to be working "with" KUBARK now only because there was no other alternative if they were to accomplish their mission. In other words, these agents will cooperate with KUBARK only when it is to their advantage. It is believed that if the operation were to develop, control would diminish rather than increase in the advanced stages of the operation, since the need for KUBARK assistance will decrease as operational successes increase. It is believed that AMIC/27 would have no hesitation "selling out" the operation to any one of the major refugee political groups at any time that he felt it advantageous to do so. It is believed that, if he is not already doing so, he is most likely to collaborate with either the Segundo Frente el Escambray, headed by Eloy, Gutierrez Menoyo, or the MRP faction headed by Manuel Ray. In the meantime AMIC/27 will attempt to have his attention because of his ZRMTAI connections, and he will not hesitate to go behind KUBARK's back to AMTRUNK/1, AMICE/1, and ODACIT or higher authority, if the operation of KUBARK handling of the AMTRUNKS does not progress to his liking. Since AMTRUNK/1, according to AMAP/1, "masterminded" this operation in the first place, it may be assumed that the AMTRUNKS will withhold nothing from AMTRUNK/1.

Distribution:  
3 - C/SAS w/attchs

END OF MESSAGE

---

3. In examining the strengths of the AMTRUNK operation, the AMTRUNK group as a whole represents superior agent material. Three of the four have been outstanding in training. The number of fairly well placed contacts on the inside whom they expect to be able to call on for assistance. Although they have been out of direct touch with a number of these contacts for periods ranging up to two years, this is frequently the case in this type of operation. The objective of the operation is worthwhile.

4. Based on the attached operational review and the advantages and disadvantages outlined above, it is the recommendation of JMWAVE Station that this operation be terminated at the earliest possible moment. Since this operation originated at the Headquarters level, it is requested that Headquarters advise JMWAVE as to its decision. In the meantime, training and planning will continue. If Headquarters' decision is to continue with the operation at this time, operational plans for Phase I and Phase II will be submitted as formulated.