# TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

**発信者（発）:** J. Langdon
**受信者（着）:** 不明
**日時:** 24 August 1962

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SUBJECT: ATTEMPT OF ANTONIO VARONA, OP CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, TO OBTAIN SUPPORT OF PRESIDENT CHIARI OF PANAMA IN ACTION TO OVERTHROW CASTRO REGIME

1. ON 15 AUGUST 1962 ANTONIO VARONA LOREDO, DEPUTY CHIEF OF THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL (CRC), VISITED PRESIDENT ROBERTO CHIARI OF PANAMA AND REQUESTED CHIARI TO ORGANIZE AND HOST A MEETING OF CENTRAL AMERICAN CHIEFS OF STATE ON THE CUBAN ISSUE WITH EMPHASIS ON INFILTRATION OF CASTRO AGENTS INTO CENTRAL AMERICA. VARONA SAID THAT SUCH A MEETING SHOULD BE HELD AT A VERY EARLY DATE AND THAT CHIARI SHOULD INVITE PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO ATTEND. CHIARI TOLD VARONA THAT THIS WOULD BE A MOST SERIOUS UNDERTAKING REQUIRING INTENSIVE STUDY AND THAT HE COULD MAKE NO COMMITMENT TO VARONA ON THE MATTER. ON 16 AUGUST VARONA LEFT PANAMA FOR SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, SAYING HE WOULD RETURN TO PANAMA ON 20 AUGUST AND HOPED TO TALK TO PRESIDENT CHIARI AGAIN AT THAT TIME.

2. ON 20 AUGUST A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES IN PANAMA CALLED ON MARCOS ROBLES, PANAMANIAN MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE, AND REQUESTED ROBLES TO TRY TO PERSUADE PRESIDENT CHIARI TO PERMIT THE ESTABLISHMENT IN PANAMA OF A TRAINING BASE FOR CUBAN EXILES.

3. ON 21 AUGUST PRESIDENT CHIARI SAID THE MAIN PURPOSE OF VARONA'S VISIT WAS TO REQUEST CHIARI'S APPROVAL OF A TRAINING BASE IN PANAMA, AND THAT HE HAD TOLD VARONA HE WOULD TAKE THE MATTER UNDER CONSIDERATION. HOWEVER, CHIARI DISCUSSED IT WITH MEMBERS OF HIS GOVERNMENT SUBSEQUENTLY AND IT WAS AGREED THAT PERMISSION WOULD NOT BE GRANTED FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRAINING SITE.

4. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ON 13 AUGUST DR. JOSE MIRO CARDONA, PRESIDENT OF THE CRC, SAID IN MIAMI THAT VARONA WAS LEAVING MIAMI 14 AUGUST ON A TRIP TO PANAMA AND COSTA RICA. MIRO SAID THAT THE PURPOSE OF THE TRIP WAS GENERAL PUBLIC RELATIONS WITH NO PARTICULAR MOTIVE IN MIND. HE MENTIONED THAT VARONA WOULD SEE PRESIDENT CHIARI WHILE HE WAS IN PANAMA TO DISCUSS THE CUBAN PROBLEM IN GENERAL AND ATTEMPT TO ENLIST FURTHER SUPPORT FOR THE CAUSE. HE SAID VARONA WOULD ALSO INQUIRE OF CHIARI WHETHER THERE WERE ANY NEW DEVELOPMENTS ON A SUGGESTED MEETING OF THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF CENTRAL AMERICA WHICH HAD BEEN DISCUSSED WHEN HE (MIRO) WAS IN THE AREA IN JUNE. THERE WERE APPARENTLY REASONS FOR VARONA'S TRIP OTHER THAN THE OSTENSIBLE ONES STATED BY MIRO. THERE ARE RUMORS THAT SOME MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IN MIAMI ARE MAKING EFFORTS TO OBTAIN HELP IN CONVINCING PRESIDENT CHIARI TO PERMIT THE ESTABLISHMENT IN PANAMA OF A CUBAN GOVERNMENT-IN-EXILE HEADED BY DR. MIRO CARDONA.

5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCARIB, CINCULANT

END OF MESSAGE