# DISPATCH

**発信者（発）:** Chief, Task Force W  
**受信者（着）:** Chief of Station, JMAVE  
**日時:** 1 May 62

Transmitted herewith are fourteen CIA reports and an index of same.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments:  
H CIA Reports, 1-20  
CIA Index, in duplicate

Distribution:  
3 - H/TW, w/atts. (5)

RETURN TO CIA  
Background Use Only  
Do Not Reproduce

---

# SECRET

Attachment to: UTGA-3936, dated 2 May 1962

Number assigned: Subject: Source

CIA 175: Office of the Secretary of the President, A 12 903 184  
CIA 176: Personnel at Spot, A 11 444 375  
CIA 177: Glancing HOLOCAUST Report, A 12 903 489  
CIA 178: DRE/FOAC-Havana, A 12 903 413  
CIA 179: Information on Bayamo, Oriente Province, A 12 903 464  
CIA 180: US Release to Guantanamo Navy Base, A 12 903 434  
CIA 181: Legal Travelers, A 12 903 462  
CIA 182: Wrenchers/Havana, A 12 903 436  
CIA 183: Independent Operators/Miami to Matanzas, [Jesus Gregorio PEREZ]  
CIA 184: List of Cubans Entering the U.S. with False Visas: Nelson L. RAYMOCK  
CIA 185: Organizations Anticommunist Cubana, A 12 903 514  
CIA 186: Security of Calimete/Contact to Isle of Pines, A 12 903 469  
CIA 194: List of Cubans Entering the U.S. with False Visas: Nelson L. RAYMOCK

---

# SECRET

TA-17  
6 April 1962

ATTENTION REQUIRED: KURACE

1. On 24 April 1962, Ignacio Pia Martinez, A-12993-19, born 10 December 1933, Havana; Home address: 2315 SW 25th Street, was interviewed.

2. Source said that he was a member of the DRE and the FOAC in Havana. When asked what the FOAC is, he said that "It is the Federation of Organizations Anticommunist Cubana." He explained that the DRE is trying to reorganize and that the FOAC, a large united organization, is trying to help the DRE. The FOAC, he said, is instructing the DRE in its reorganization.

3. Source said that his DRE contact is [Manuel Santos, Jr.] living in [Calle Milan number 330 entre] La Lourdes y Villalobos, Arroyo Apolo, Havana. He said that [Esonal] is in direct touch with an O6 FOAC coordinator and that his job is to organize student groups for passive resistance activities. This includes, he said, propaganda work, distributing pamphlets and starting rumors.

4. Source said that the identity of FOAC members is kept quite secret, but he was aware that one [Ezequiel Hernandez] is an O6 FOAC leader in Havana. He knew no other details.

---

# DRE

UTGA-3797/02, (CKA-123) 12 Apr 62, 19-9-9

One [Eduardo Tomas TORRES Ramos] said that he was (had been) Chief of Security for DRE in Sagua la Grande, and that for all practical purposes the resistance has been liquidated in Sagua la Grande. As Chief of Security his job was to hide and infiltrate people fleeing from Cuba, which he said was the last remaining job that the resistance could do.