# AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINGS

**発信者（発）:** なし
**受信者（着）:** なし
**日時:** 15 November 1974

Note: 201 files will be opened automatically by IP/AN on the following categories of people.

1. (Arab Republic of Egypt (ARE))
   a. Diplomats with rank of third secretary or above.
   b. Military attaches and assistant military attaches.
   c. Intelligence officers of the General Intelligence Department (GID).
   d. All positively identified members of MI-5 and MI-6 the British Intelligence Services.
   e. All positively identified members of the Irish Military Intelligence Service (MITS).
   f. Canadian Communist Party officials on national or provincial levels and officials of the Canadian Communist Party front organizations. Do not open unless there is at least a date of birth given.
   g. All members of the Security Service of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP-SS).
   h. Intelligence service employees (DSE, DGI).
   i. All Israeli diplomats (C/NE/ISR) should be indicated as the originating office with CI/SP always indicated as the secondary office of interest.
   j. Military attaches.
   k. Assistant military attaches.
   l. Identified intelligence officers.

5. North Vietnam
   All diplomats and NFLSV (PRG) officials stationed abroad.

6. USSR
   a. All Soviets assigned PCS to an official representational installation, i.e., embassy, consulate, commercial representation, national airline (Aeroflot) office, news media office.
   b. All Soviets assigned PCS to the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva, and Vienna.
   c. Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concerned.
   d. Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions of higher learning.