# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**発信者（発）:** DIRECTOR  
**受信者（着）:** PHOTON HQD  
**日時:** 16 OCTOBER 1963  

1. FOR HIO: SOME MEMBERS OF CHILE DELEGATION TO THE SEVENTH CONGRESS OF INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ARCHITECTS (UIA) HELD HAVANA 29 SEPT - 3 OCT ATTENDED UIA GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON ARCHITECTURE. NEXT GROUP NOW SCHEDULED LEAVE MEET 0100 HOURS 19 OCT FOR RIO.

A. YANG TING-PAO 2799-1691-105; 201-753-346; B. 20 AUG 1901, HENAN;  
B. LIANG ZHOU-CHENG 2733-1835-2052; 201-736-781; B. 1901, TOKYO; U.S. EDUCATED; MBR CCP; DEPUTY NPC AND CPPCC; VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY.  
C. WU CHI-HING-HSIANG 0702-2529-4382; 201-736317; B. CITCA 1919, MANCHURIA; FRENCH EDUCATED; CHAIRMAN ARCHITECTURE DEPT TUNING CHI UNIV, SHANGHAI.

2. DURING STAY GROUP MIGHT UNILATERAL APPROACHES MADE TO YANG TING-PAO AND LIANG ZHOU-CHENG FOR PURPOSES OF ASSESSMENT AND POSSIBLE DETECTING, DETECTION OF RECRUITMENT IN PLACE. FOLLOWING CONTACTS WITH YANG AND WU PERFORMED.

3. WU'S BROTHER, U.S. CITIZEN, ARRIVING MEXICO 16 OCTOBER TO TALK WITH; ASK HIM IF WISHES REMAIN IN FREE WORLD.  
4. RESEARCH GROUP MONITOR ACTIVITIES GROUP BRAZIL AS FEASIBLE AND ATTEMPT DEVELOP FURTHER RIO AND ASSESS DATA IF NATURAL ACCESS TO GROUP CAN BE FOUND. DO NOT RECOMMEND FORWARD APPROACH TO ANY OF GROUP, SINCE OUR COVER FOR THIS ACTIVITY WORKING THEM AND THERE IS LONG RANGE GOAL OF FUTURE FOLLOW UP THESE CONTACTS WHEN APPROPRIATE ACCESS CAN BE ARRANGED.

5. FOR ME: PLS IDENTIFY OTHER MBRs OF MEXI GROUP ENROUTE RIO AND FORWARD TO RIO ANY ADDITIONAL INFO ON PURPOSE TRIP TO RIO. ALSO INFORM RIO OF RESULTS WE MET WITH BROTHER.

END OF MESSAGE