# 秘密文書

**発信者（発）:** PARIS  
**受信者（着）:** DIRECTOR  
**日時:** 19 JUN 1963  

SEC R E T I  
7727Z  
KPRTY DIR INFO PRITY NADR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9686 TYPIC  
REF A PARI 0088 (IN 1960) K  
B PARI 949 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS)  

1. RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 13 JUNE. IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 6824. RAY HAS ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT UNRUMBLE 6, UNPAIST, AND AT LEAST ONE CONTACT WITH AMSPORT 1. RAY DESIGNATED UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND WAS APPROACHED DMB IN PAST SEPARATELY FROM UNRUMBLE 2 WITH SOME INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIM DIRECTLY IN PAST BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP WITH UNRUMBLE 2. UNRUMBLE 2 WILL NEVERLESS BE VISITING UNRUMBLE 6 CURRENT RELATIONSHIP. RAY WAS DRIVEN AIRPORT OF ALBERT BAEK WITH JERVAY SPENT MUCH TIME AND WHO SEEMS THE CLOSEST TO RAY AMONG HIS CONTACTS PARIS.  

2. CABRERA DID NOT SHOW UP IN PARIS OVER WEEKEND.  

3. RAY BELIEVES CABRERA WILL WORK ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS CIRCLE WHO IN PUERTO RICO AND KNOWN TO RAY. HE COULD NOT REMEMBER NAME OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP BUT PLANS CONTACT HIM ON RETURN AND GROOM HIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.  

4. KUBARK STAFFER (IDEN B) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM MET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAPPORT. HE ARRANGED RAY'S PRESS INTERVIEW WITH GUILLO DE MAQUILINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED IN PARA FIVE PARI 8947) OF LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER. JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR FRANQUIL SHOULD HE DEFECT.  

5. RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUIL WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORKING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES DIR 48158 AND PARI 967A (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS).  

6. POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUDE TALK WITH FRANQUIL IS IN 8 JUNE. AMB GRANATIES "MENTIONS TO SINOBAS THAT MARIO PRESUMABLY THIRD SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUIL ASKED FOR SOME PEOPLE FROM THE EMBASSY TO BE AROUND THE EXHIBITION.  

7. RAY FEELS THAT EUROPE WAS VERY PROFITABLE. DESPITE FACT HE WAS NO FIRM COMMITMENT FROM FRANQUIL, CABRERA OR ARCOS HE.  

8. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMULATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.  

9. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN IDENTICAL SV SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. WOULD APPRECIATE HIS PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SV SYSTEM.  

10. FEEL ONE SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT OF RAY'S TRIP WAS RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING RELATION WITH RAY. BELIEVE WE HIT IT OFF WELL WITH NAUMAN GROWERY AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE OUR SUPPORT WHICH MAY ALLEVIATE SOMEWHAT SOME PAST PROBLEMS RUBARK.  

11. INDEX.  
RAY DEPARTING PARI AT 015, ARRIVING MY 1300 HRS 18 JUNE.