# デブリーフィングレポート - Santiago SANCHEZ de la Torre

**発信者（発）:** Clarence E. SMERYAG
**受信者（着）:** Chief of Station, JAMAYE
**日時:** 3 September 1963

1. Subject began to work against the CASTRO regime with the MRR in 1960. At that time he was employed in the Santa Clara power plant as a technician. His job was controlling the amount of electric current that was distributed. (Attachment "A" contains a list of Subject's friends currently employed in power plants in Cuba). On 17 April 1961 Subject made contact with a MRR infiltration team and began to assist the team. Team consisted of Jorge BORGES, Gonzalo SAMAJO, and others. Case Officer Comment: AMBROCK has confirmed the fact that Subject worked with his team in Cuba. Subject provided the team to install their R-1 set in his house located at #219 Carrera de Cama Juan in the City of Santa Clara. He also housed the team on occasion and permitted them to hold meetings at his house. After the failure of Playa Giron the team reorganized the MRR in Las Villas Province, selecting Subject to be the Civil Coordinator of the movement in that province. Enrique ORTEGA was selected as the Military Coordinator. On 21 July 1961, Subject went to Havana for discussions with MRR leaders. Members of the MRR in Las Villas, including Subject's wife, were arrested.

2. Subject proceeded to the outskirts of Santa Clara where a friend, Efrain MAWAREN, resided. His friend told him to go to Havana. While driving to Havana Subject met another person who informed him that the G-2 had a roadblock on the highway at Colon, Matanzas, and that all cars were being searched. On 24 July 1961, Subject went to a beach called "Ganuza" located on the north coast of Las Villas near Corralillo. Subject's sister has a home at "Ganuza" so he left his car there and proceeded to Havana with some friends of his sister. Later the G-2 confiscated his auto. (It is interesting to note that the G-2, after confiscating Subject's auto at the beach, believed that Subject had departed from Cuba. Subject thereafter communicated with his wife by sending her letters in jail via Miami where they were postmarked).

3. On 25 July 1961 Subject went to the house of an MRR leader, PUI JIMENEZ, in Havana. When Subject approached JIMENEZ's house he noticed a blind man as if someone was watching so he did not go in. He walked two blocks to a bus stop. From the bus stop he could observe the house and he noticed that a car dropped at a high rate of speed. Later that day Subject made contact with ORTEGA at the house of Maria IRIVI in Havana. Subject told Eady GALENO during March 1962 that the MRR plans for the following day (26 July) ORTEGA said that the movement was going ahead with their plans even though they were not aware.

4. Subject went into the apartment of JIMENEZ. First Subject resided for approximately one week at the home of MELAGRO in Varadero. MELAGRO continues to work for the entire country. (In April 1962 Subject's wife escaped from the Women's Prison in Guanajay, and Subject claims the "MALAGRO" house). Subject claims that ORTEGA also has a home located at "Avenida de los Ocuses" in Santa Catalina (outskirts of Havana). Subject spent approximately one month in the above house (Aug.-Sept. 61).

5. From October 1961 Subject resided with CRUZ, a person he had known for years. While living with CRUZ, he changed his appearance, dyed and curled his hair, obtained contacts. Subject claims he was in jail at this time. In November 1961, Subject also lived in a house in Santa Clara from Caaguay. Subject identified himself as a G-2 man. 

6. In late November 1961, Subject moved into a "guest house" where several other MRR members resided. House is called "House of Maria de la Luz". Subject met "Fernando", the Security Chief of the MRR there. 

7. In January 1962, Arturo MUGARRA and Roberto SANCHEZ were preparing to depart from Cuba. When ASJAVADA and AMBROCK arrived in Havana they changed their minds. 

8. On 2 May 1962 AMBROCK and MUGARRA returned from the area. 

9. Subject entered the building with his briefcase containing a pistol. He noticed two men loitering in the lobby. He took the elevator to the 9th floor, operated and walked to the 11th floor. Subject was very cautious. 

10. Subject later discovered that the G-2 had captured a "large radio" at the apartment of a radio technician named TROVADUIS. 

11. During September 1962 Subject and his wife entered the Uruguayan Embassy to remain in asylum until 19 June 1963 when they arrived in Mexico City via Safe Conduct.

12. Attachment "B" is a report on Angel BENCONO who Subject believes was responsible for the MRR "roll-up".