# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

**発信者（発）:** DIRECTOR  
**受信者（着）:** MEXICO CITY  
**日時:** 12 OCTOBER 1963  

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: MEXICO CITY  
FROM: DIRECTOR  
CONF:  
END:  

INFO:  

1. 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992  
2. 12 OCTOBER 1963  

---

**PAGE TWO**

TO: DESIRED MEET  
INFO:  

56. AMOS, VETERANS CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE  
58. REG. 58, VETERANS ADMINISTRATION, WASHINGTON, D.C.  
50. SEP. 50, VICE PRESIDENT, NATIONAL COUNCIL OF AMERICANS, PERU.  
59. APR. 59, DEPUTY SECOND NATIONAL, PEOPLE'S CONGRESS FROM PERU, AMERICAN EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D.C.  
62. OCT. 62, VICE CHAIRMAN, CIVIL ADMINISTRATION SOCIETY.  
63. SEP. 63, DEPUTY LEADER OF CPR, RELATING TO BUSINESS LINES, NATIONAL CHURCHES OF AMERICANS, HAVANA.  

---

**PAGE THREE**

TO: DESIRED MEET  
INFO:  

BY THE SECRETS THAT EVERYTHING OF THE PARTY WAS GOOD. HE SAID THAT AFTER HE DISCOVERED THAT HE WAS A NATIONAL TARGET FOR REPUTATION. HE SAID "I WAS DISTURBED. I HAVE NO QUARREL WITH THE PARTY."  
"I WAS SURE I WAS BEING SELECTED TO CONTINUE BECAUSE OF PERSONAL PROBLEMS."  

---

**PAGE FOUR**

TO: DESIRED MEET  
INFO:  

1. STANLEY I (THIS) WAS CONSIDERED FISHER LIANG AT UNIV. VARSITY OF OPINIONS THAT LIANG WOULD NOT BE SELECTED TO PLACE BUT THERE IS CHANCE.  
2. I WILL USE SECRET COVER AND WILL REMAIN OVER TWO DAYS DUE TO PERSONAL CONCERNS. HIS VISITING WILL BE SO THE PARTY PERSISTS TO ATTEND.  

---

**PAGE FIVE**

TO: DESIRED MEET  
INFO:  

WILL MEET WITH HIM TIE. IF CONTACT NEEDED EMPLOYEES TO PROCEED CITY AND COMPACT MARTIN GUARD AT BRANCH ASKED FOR SABBATICAL. AUTHORIZE STATION ADVANCE OPERATIONAL FUNDS AND THE DUES AS NECESSARY TO STIPULATE.  

HEAD OF MESSAGE  

RAPFORD HERBERT  
DC/WHD  