# メモランダム

**発信者（発）:** Dr. MIRO  
**受信者（着）:** [情報なし]  
**日時:** 10 October 1961  

件名: Meeting with Dr. MIRO Cardona on 6 October

1. Dr. MIRO arrived about 9:50 a.m. for the meeting we had set at 10:00; again he was driven by his secretary whom he introduced. As during the first meeting, she remained outside in the car. Our meeting lasted until 12:00 noon.

2. First, Dr. MIRO handed me a note in longhand listing the topics discussed with me on 5 October. These points are:

   a. Groups conducting propaganda, etc. with Agency support should receive their support and be coordinated through the Council.  
   b. A propaganda campaign should be waged by the Council aimed at:  
      (1) Cuba, via a long wave radio station in Key West,  
      (2) Cubans in Miami and other U.S. areas by:  
         (a) Subsidizing Diario de las Américas,  
         (b) Contracting for time on radio stations.  
   (3) Latin America; with a plan such as the Operación Grinta.  
   c. Underground activities.  
      (1) Provision of monthly funds to Council for procuring Cuban pesos to send to the seven-odd resistance groups in Cuba through reliable channels (such as previously sent through the Italian embassy).

3. Commando Plan  
   Then Dr. MIRO handed me a plan (in English) for clandestine action prepared by his military collaborators, whom he named as Colonel Manuel VARELA Castro, an officer of the Academy, Captain Enrique DESPAIGNE, and Colonel (nu) MONTEAGUDO. He stated that they were of the BARQUIN group and had been prisoners.

4. Request for Arms, etc. to send to Escambray  
   Dr. MIRO remarked that over a month ago he had made a request to Clark for arms for the anti-Castro insurgents in the Escambray, but to date had heard nothing relative to the request. He commented wryly, "I ask but never hear an answer." He said that the fighters there should be supported. Dr. MIRO stated that he had a boat (provided by us) and a means for delivery of the arms. Uvaldo RAMIREZ is chief of the Escambray group.

5. Information on Arms Received by Castro Regime  
   Dr. MIRO handed me a long report which he said was brought to him by the Argentine Ambassador to Cuba when the latter came to the U.S. at the time of President FRONDIZI's visit. He said the Ambassador would not divulge the source of the information but commented, "You will know."

6. Proposal that Council go to Cuba with Commando Group and Establish a Government on Cuban Soil  
   Dr. MIRO then declared that he was convinced that Castro would never be overthrown by all the propaganda, the sabotage, commando raids, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic relations and deteriorating economy, and that it was inconceivable to establish a government on Cuban soil. Castro's regime was for the Revolutionary Council to go to Cuba and establish like a government on Cuban soil, ask recognition by all friendly countries and military assistance of its principal ally, the U.S., and that the U.S. be ready to intervene immediately with its forces. "This would all have to take place in a matter of 48 hours, otherwise it would fail. I recognize that this is a bold plan, but boldness is necessary. There will be many risks, many may be killed. As for myself, I don't care if I die. I have lost all my personal possessions and my son is a prisoner." He reiterated that all must be well prepared in advance, there must be no vacillation, everything must proceed rapidly. First, a commando raid in force to isolate one piece of Cuban territory, preferably near Guantanamo, and immediately the members of the Council go ashore, proclaim a provisional government, broadcast by radio to all Cubans an appeal for recognition (and assistance prepared in advance would also be sent out), request U.S. assistance, and the U.S. should furnish such assistance at once in adequate strength to ensure victory.

7. MIRO's Views on Coordinating the Activities of Other Exile Groups  
   After Dr. MIRO reiterated his view that he should be the channel for funds and coordinating the activities of groups outside the Consejo such as the Students, FORD (Labor), etc., I said that I understood that some of these elements were unwilling to function under the Consejo; and that in view of that situation, did he consider that an Activity Committee might be organized with a delegate from each of these groups and under the chairmanship of a member of the Consejo. This would serve to coordinate their activities; give them a tie-in with the Consejo, yet not make them subservient to it. Dr. MIRO replied that this would merely set up another Consejo outside of and parallel to the existing Consejo.

8. Members of the Revolutionary Council  
   Dr. MIRO remarked that he had a meeting of the Council on 10 October. I asked what elements now composed it and what he proposed to add. He named the following as presently in the Consejo:  
   Rescate  
   30 de Noviembre  
   MRR  
   Acción Democrática  
   20 de Mayo  
   AAA Independiente  
   MDC  
   Montecristi  
   He said he had invited to join:  
   MRP  
   Unidad Revolucionaria  

9. Probable Argentine Rupture of Relations with Cuba  
   Dr. MIRO declared that he believed imminent the Argentine rupture of relations with Cuba. He said the Argentine Ambassador to Cuba (Julio AMODEC) was ordered to return to Havana (he had been vacationing in the U.S. after FRONDIZI's visit); that VILLANUEVA, a Secretary of the Argentine Embassy in Cuba was coming to see MIRO today; and further that he (MIRO) had received a phone call last night from a Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Aires, urging MIRO to go to Buenos Aires to arouse anti-Castro sentiment of the people, inasmuch as some Argentine action against Cuba appeared imminent.

10. MIRO to attend Homage to LACERDA (Brazilian who precipitated QUADROS' resignation) on October 15  
    Dr. MIRO said he planned to remain in New York City (after 11 and 12 October SIP meetings) until October 15th to attend the homage for LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabara province in Brazil. MIRO probably will stay at the Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark of his location.

11. Propaganda Commission  
    I asked Dr. MIRO about his ideas on the future organization and structure of the Propaganda Commission. He stated that it is outside the Consejo and not under his direct control, although the Council accountant has been passing funds to it. He said CAR RULLEC had resigned as head of Propaganda and that he would like CONTE ACUERO to handle it. He claimed that MESTRE had not done anything with propaganda.

12. MIRO's Views Relative to Supreme Court Justice or PRIO being Recognized as Head of a Provisional Government  
    I asked Dr. MIRO if he believed that there were many anti-Castro Cubans (both in and out of Cuba) who favored PRIO, or the head of the Supreme Court to be the provisional president if a government were to be established on Cuban soil. Dr. MIRO declared that the revolution is a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former regime. The people in Cuba would resist any such possibility.

13. Offices of Council (Consejo Revolucionario)  
    When questioned about his business and private telephones, MIRO said, "The business phone is also in my house. I have no office except in my house, but that phone is always busy (JEFFERSON 2-4680). So use the other phone (JEFFERSON 4-2751) when you wish to call me."

14. MIRO's Views on Coordinating the Activities of Other Exile Groups  
    After Dr. MIRO reiterated his view that he should be the channel for funds and coordinating the activities of groups outside the Consejo such as the Students, FORD (Labor), etc., I said that I understood that some of these elements were unwilling to function under the Consejo; and that in view of that situation, did he consider that an Activity Committee might be organized with a delegate from each of these groups and under the chairmanship of a member of the Consejo. This would serve to coordinate their activities; give them a tie-in with the Consejo, yet not make them subservient to it. Dr. MIRO replied that this would merely set up another Consejo outside of and parallel to the existing Consejo.

15. Telephone Conversation with MIRO on 7 October  
    Before my departure from Miami for Washington on 7 October, I telephoned to Dr. MIRO from the airport. He appreciated the call and asked if I had seen in the morning paper the action taken yesterday by the ALABAU Lawyers' group in proclaiming Julio CARCERA (one of the Chief Justices in exile) as "President of Cuba at War." He expressed his indignation at this unilateral "political" move by ALABAU and his adherents among the exiled lawyers and judges. He added his best wishes to me and reminded me that he would probably go to New York on October 11th or 12th for the SIP (Sociedad Interamericana de Prensa) meeting. I replied that I would appreciate if he would contact Clark after his arrival to give his location in New York City, and that Clark might have a request from me for an appointment with him, if this seemed desirable. I suggested that in future phone conversations I would be known as JUANITO. He agreed with pleasure that this would be a good procedure. I wished him Godspeed and he replied likewise to me.

16. Comment  
    During these first two meetings I endeavored to establish myself favorably with Dr. MIRO and therefore refrained from bringing up details of budget or opposition to any of his specific proposals. I listened, asked various questions, and he talked at length.

    In future meetings, after I have gained further background and have more policy guidance, I shall be able to discuss with him specific issues and endeavor to reach agreements or compromises, as may be required.