# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

**発信者（発）:** C/WH/SEC GH-56  
**受信者（着）:** Chief, PSD 3E-48  
**日時:** 5 May 1966  

For inclusion in Subject's security file.

---

# DISPATCH

**発信者（発）:** Chief, JMWAVE  
**受信者（着）:** Chief, KUVEST  
**日時:** 20 A pr 66  

Action Required: FYI  
Wilcott arrived PCS at JMWAVE on 26 April 1965 and submitted his resignation at JMWAVE from KUBARK to be effective cob 15 April 1966. While at JMWAVE Subject was under the cover of JMOCEN.  

Subject resigned in order to seek employment in private industry. A resume of his KUBARK employment is as follows:  
a. Mar. 57 (EOD) to May 60 - in Hqs - overt employee  
b. May 60 to July 64 - Tokyo, Japan under ODIBEX cover  
c. Aug. 64 - leave  
d. Sept. 64 to Apr 65 - in Hqs - ODIBEX cover  
e. 26 Apr 65 to 15 Apr 66 - JMOCEN  

Subject was instructed in the event he ever seeks employment with ODYOKE he should contact the Station for guidance as to what he will show as his former ODYOKE employment.  

Under separate cover there is being forwarded to Headquarters a copy of the resume that Subject is submitting in seeking employment with private industry. This resume was written by Philip G. ELMARD and it was concurred in by Chief/Finance and Chief/Cover of JMWAVE.  

Attachment: 1 (Resume)  
Under Separate Cover  

---

# HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT

**発信者（発）:** U.S. Army Element, (Composite Operations Group)  
**受信者（着）:** -  
**日時:** -  

March 1957 to May 1960  
U.S. Army Element, (Composite Operations Group)  
Room 1845, The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.  
Salary: $6,000.  

Review vouchers and determine cost center and object class.  
Maintain special payrolls and related accounts and resolve problems relating to leave, retirement, taxes, etc., and correlate payroll function with other departments.  

Assist in the installation of and supervision of posting machine operation to maintain allotment ledger. Maintain Miscellaneous Obligation Record and supervise posting clerks. Monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual summary of Allotment Accounts preparation and other related statements. Maintain Expenditure Distribution Ledger and balance with IBM run.  

May 1960 to July 1964  
U.S. Army Element, (Composite Operations Group) assigned to Composite Analysis Group  
Salary: $6,500.  

Maintain and pay special payroll and prepare reports, summaries.  
Control and responsibility for funds in the high six figures. Supervision and audit of revolving funds and accounting vouchers. Monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual statements, summaries and reports of revolving funds.  
Control and responsibility for transfers of funds and foreign currency and maintenance of conversion accounts.  
Supervise and perform financial negotiations with Japanese businessman.  

---

September 1964 to April 1965  
U.S. Army Element, (Composite Operations Group)  
Room 1845, The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.  
Salary: $6,390.  

Perform audit of several special payrolls. Assist in the pilot study and installation of a new payroll system.  
Assist various branches in problems relating to the conversion to computer bookkeeping.  
Assist in the balancing of the General Ledger accounts in connection with the year-end closing of the books.  

May 1965 to Present  
The Melmar Corporation, Miami, Florida  
Payroll Officer  
Salary: $8,000.  

Reorganize the payroll office and assume responsibility for the schedule and accuracy of payrolls. Instruct, direct and assist clerks in compiling, computing and preparation of payrolls. Prepare checks for distribution. Investigate and settle disputes regarding errors in pay checks. Audit payroll summaries, bank balances and labor distribution records, etc. Prepare quarterly and annual tax report forms, wage reports and surveys. Correlate payroll function with other departments.