# FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

**発信者（発）:** 不明
**受信者（着）:** 不明
**日時:** 25 October 1962

**主題:** Soviet Merchant Vessels in Cuban Ports

1. 1 September - 19 October 1962
   Cuba (24 September - 16 October 1962)

   Source: Para 1: AMHUD-1 by letter dated 24 September from friend Melquiades from Havana. Para 2: AMHUAN-1 by SW message dated 9 October, received by NAVA/Tach on 15 October. Legibility of message was somewhat impaired; the footers stating that the vessels had discharged their cargo is signified by the (D) is confusing since the date of the message is earlier than the last expected date of arrival (19 Oct.)

   Accompanying report are attached untranslated shipping documents entitled "Movement of Steamships in the Republic", for dates 5 through 16 August 1962, supplied by AMTAURA-1, received 18 October 1962.

2. From 1 to 10 September the following Soviet merchant vessels, transporting war material, arrived at the port of Isla de la Juventud:
   - THURUG VISHEVSKY 9,600 tons
   - ELIZAVETA 8,700 tons
   - MICHLEIS 7,532 tons
   - VOLOKLES 4,345 tons
   - VITKOROVSK 7,838 tons
   - ESOLYT 4,500 tons

3. The following merchant vessels arrived at the ports listed on the dates indicated, with the following cargo:
   - MATOULA 2 Oct. Havana 424 General Cargo (D)
   - PAMIT 3 Oct. Havana 446 Cattle also (D)
   - 1,094 General Cargo (D)
   - ARKHANGELSK 3 Oct. Havana 226 Trucks (D)
   - REIMHOLT 3 Oct. Havana 3,400 Gral (D)
   - MATOULA 3 Oct. HAVANA 957 Potatoes (D)

4. MATOULA ID 10 158 Grasso (D)
   - ESOLYT 3 Oct. Katana 5,000 Cement (D)
   - TAMIKAS DUE TO ARRIVE FROM THE BLACK SEA
   - LISICHANSK 3 Oct. Havana 221,000 Petroleum (barrels) (D)
   - DEZIMEA 8 Oct. Havana 269,000 Petroleum (barrels) (D)
   - UGAINTY 9 Oct. Havana 21,000 Petroleum (barrels) also, 9,500 Oil (barrels) also, 31,600 Gasoline (barrels) (D)
   - OCEAN 14 Oct. Havana 170,000 Crude Oil (barrels)
   - BAUSKA 10 Oct. Havana Cargo unknown
   - LONDON 14 Oct. Santiago 171,000 Crude Oil de Cuba (barrels)
   - LEHKORAM 7 Oct. Havana 214,000 Crude Oil (barrels)
   - ALDEBARAN 8 Oct. Santiago 143,000 Crude Oil de Cuba (barrels)

   NOTE: (D) Indicates that cargo was disembarked (unloaded).