# FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

**発信者（発）:** なし
**受信者（着）:** なし
**日時:** 1960年12月16日

**主題:** Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez

COUNTRY: Mexico/Cuba  
REPORT NO: 1821-5348  
DATE OF REPORT: 16 December 1960  
NO. OF PAGES: 1  
REFERENCES: 1824-5321  

DATE OF: 8 December 1960  
INFO: PLACE: Mexico, Mexico City (8 December 1960)  
DATE ACC.  

SOURCE: Person with good connections in the Cuban Embassy (3). Appraisal of Content:  

1. On 8 December 1960 Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez who represents himself as a priest told Jose Antonio PORTUONDO Valdés, Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, that he had information that "the thing they were working on" had gotten underway and had produced a tremendous reaction in Cuba. He said that a friend, who is Roman Catholic but very liberal, had returned from a visit to Cuba, where he said the Knights of Columbus were pretty well entrenched. For this reason, CORTES said he felt it would be necessary to "take the bull by the horns" and begin things or the Knights of Columbus would gain the advantage.

2. PORTUONDO said that the bombing of the church of Father BOZA in Cuba had definitely been an act of "auto-aggression" and was clumsily done. He said a red flag with hammer and sickle was found in the debris. PORTUONDO told CORTES that Carlos OLIVARES, Under-secretary of Foreign Affairs, had not said anything, but, since he, PORTUONDO, was going to Cuba at the end of December, he believed that OLIVARES would wait until his visit.

3. CORTES said that he would like to go to Cuba and see for himself how things were going.

Field Comments  
1. According to an untested source in the Roman Catholic Church, CORTES Hernandez was never a priest. It was previously reported that Atibios, Mexico City newspaper, had reported that CORTES was a Catholic priest and a member of the Jesuit order until 1950 when he left the order because of his "rebellious and anarchic spirit."

2. It is believed that CORTES Hernandez, who belongs to a schismatic Catholic church, called the Mexican Apostolic Catholic Church, is interested in establishing a schismatic church in Cuba.

3. Source Comment: PORTUONDO's remark about OLIVARES came after he and CORTES had been discussing German Ience, Castrista priest who has been stopped by episcopal sanction from his ministry in Oriente province.