# フェリペ・ビダル・サンティアゴに関する文書

**発信者（発）:** EUGENE L. PAYNE  
**受信者（着）:** INS, Miami, Florida  
**日時:** 1962年12月6日  

主題: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Subject: Cuban refugee, entered the U.S. on 8/9/60, from Colombia. Subject defected from the CASTRO government while employed as Cuban Naval Attaché in Caracas, Venezuela. Subject is a former graduate of the Cuban Naval Academy and has been involved in anti-CASTRO clandestine activity against Cuba. Subject has affiliated with various anti-CASTRO organizations in the Miami, Fla. area and in 11/62, was reported to have associated with an individual having contacts with a Guatemala government official.

- C -

DETAILS:

Investigation in this matter was based upon information from MT T-1, another government agency which conducts security and intelligence-type investigations, who advised on August 8, 1962, that information had been received from a sub-source of unknown reliability, who advised as follows:

SECRET  
Group 1  
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.  
This document contains neither recommendations for certificates of the FBI, nor is the property of the FBI and is leased to your agency.  

Vidal arrived in the United States on August 9, 1960, from Bogotá, Colombia, and applied for a B-2 visa for four months to visit his refugee wife. He pointed out he was a Lieutenant in the Cuban Navy from 1944 to 1956. In 1958 he affiliated himself with FIDEL CASTRO and after January 1, 1959, he was appointed Chief of the Maritime Police by the CASTRO government. On October 16, 1959, he was appointed Naval Attaché at Caracas, Venezuela. He defected on March 7, 1960, in Caracas because of the communist infiltration of the Cuban government.

On April 8, 1961, VIDAL applied for political asylum. VIDAL indicated that in the United States he would reside at 708 N. W. 23rd Street, Miami, Florida, and had in his possession a document identifying himself as the coordinator of the anti-CASTRO organization Movimiento de Liberación Democrática Revolucionaria.

On August 10, 1960, INS obtained a sworn signed statement from VIDAL in which he stated he was discharged from the Cuban Navy under the government of FULGENCIO BATISTA because of his opposition to BATISTA.

On October 3, 1962, MT T-2, a Cuban refugee familiar with certain phases of anti-CASTRO activity in Miami, Cuba, and who has limited information regarding communist activities in Cuba, advised that subject was planning a mission to Cuba. The subject was reportedly known to him in Cuba, who had the reputation of being an opportunist and extremely fond of drinking and carousing. He was a Captain in CASTRO's Navy in Cuba.

According to MT T-1, the pilots recruited were to be sent to Guantanamo Naval Base and the City of Santiago de Cuba, or some target in that general vicinity. No specific date was set for this operation, but FIORINI was given the date of August 31, 1962, as a time limit to find crews. FIORINI stated he had offered his services to VIDAL, but was told he could not participate.

On November 13, 1962, MT T-4 advised that approximately three weeks previously the subject had departed from Vaca Key, Marathon, Florida, in a private boat on a trip to Cuba.

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION  
The following is a physical description of the subject:

Name: FELIPE VIDAL SANTIAGO  
Alias: Felipe Vidal  
Race: White  
Sex: Male  
Date of Birth: February 3, 1926  
Place of Birth: Havana, Cuba  
Address: 2293 N. W. 7th Street, Miami, Florida  
Height: 6'  
Build: Slender  
Hair: Brown, receding  
Peculiarities: Wears mustache  
Occupation: Cuban Naval Officer  
Marital Status: Married  
Wife: RAQUEL GONZALEZ FEAL  
Father: HONORATO VIDAL MADRAZO  
Mother: MARIA DEL CARMEN SANTIAGO ALVAREZ  
Fingerprint: PS  
Classification: 19 L 17 W MIII II  
S 1 U UCO  
Cuban Passport No.: 01432  
Alien Number: All 877 $23  