# メモランダム

**発信者（発）:** CHIEF OF STATION, JMHAVE
**受信者（着）:** DEPUTY CHIEF, WH/SA
**日時:** 19 JANUARY 1965

AMTRUNK-9 INFIL

1. TRANSMITTED UNDER SEPARATE COVER VIA FLEXOWRITER IS A COPY OF THE WAVE MEMO TO ACSI AS PRESENTED TO ACSI ON 19 JANUARY 1965.

2. THE "CAS SOURCE" MENTIONED THROUGHOUT THE MEMORANDUM IS AMICE-14. THE "SUB-SOURCE" IN PARAGRAPHS 11 THROUGH 14 AND THE "SUB-SOURCE" IN PARAGRAPH 24 ARE THE SAME PERSON, IDEN A OF REFS.

3. LATER DEVELOPMENTS SINCE THE PASSING OF THIS MEMORANDUM ARE THAT BOTH THE WIFE OF AMTRUNK-9 AND AMICE-14 HAVE IDENTIFIED "JORGE" AND "TORRES" AS THE SAME PERSON FROM A PHOTOGRAPH PROVIDED BY ACSI AND, PER PARAGRAPH 27, THAT THE WIFE OF AMTRUNK-9 HAS ASKED FOR AND RECEIVED PERMISSION FROM "TORRES" TO WRITE A LETTER TO THE WIFE OF GPIDOEL PLEADING HER HUSBAND'S CASE.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

ATTACHMENT - USC WAVE MEMO TO ACSI DATED 19 JAN 65

DISTRIBUTION BY TAPE 3 - DC/MH/SA W/ATT

---

1. AT ABOUT 1800 HOURS, 29 DECEMBER 1964, MRS. JOSIE LOPEZ ANGULO DE OROZCO, WIFE OF MODESTO ORLANDO OROZCO BASULTO, TELEPHONED A CAS SOURCE WHO HAS BEEN FRIENDLY WITH GRIJCC KER FOR SEVERAL YEARS. MRS. OROZCO ASKED THE CAS SOURCE TO VISIT HER AT HER HOME THAT EVENING.

2. THE CAS SOURCE ARRIVED LATER THAT EVENING. MRS. OROZCO ASKED THE CAS SOURCE IF HE KNEW THAT HER HUSBAND HAD LEFT FOR CUBA. THE CAS SOURCE REPLIED THAT HE HAD HEARD RUMORS TO THAT EFFECT. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE WAS VERY WORRIED ABOUT HER HUSBAND BECAUSE SHE HAD NOT HEARD A WORD FROM OR ABOUT HIM SINCE HE LEFT WITH 2 OTHERS 3 DAYS PREVIOUSLY, ON 21 DECEMBER 1964. OROZCO HAD PLANNED TO RETURN IN A WEEK. MRS. OROZCO ASKED CAS SOURCE TO TRY TO FIND OUT SOMETHING ABOUT OROZCO THROUGH "HIS FRIENDS IN CUBA." CAS SOURCE SAID THAT HE WOULD TRY, SINCE HE KNEW HER HUSBAND HAD BEEN A GOOD FRIEND OF HIS BUT THAT HE WOULD NEED SOME DETAILS OF THE PROPOSED TRIP TO HELP WITH HIS INVESTIGATIONS.

3. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT HER HUSBAND HAD GONE INTO CUBA TO RESCUE J. VASQUEZ NEY AND 3 OTHERS WHO WERE HIDING IN THE HOME OF A WOMAN NAMED GLORIA CABRERA WHO LIVED AT NO. 72 27TH STREET BETWEEN "H" AND "I" STREETS, VERADO, HAVANA. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT THE ADDRESS HAD BEEN GIVEN TO OROZCO BY HORTENSIA ORIZONDO MENSES (ACSI SOURCE). MRS. OROZCO ADDED THAT BOTH SHE AND HER HUSBAND HAD KNOWN GLORIA CABRERA IN THE SIERRA MAESTRAS AND THAT SHE (MRS. OROZCO) DID NOT TRUST HER BECAUSE "SHE HAD COMPLETELY SOLD OUT THE EXILES FOR MONEY."

4. MRS. OROZCO TOLD CAS SOURCE THAT HER HUSBAND HAD BEEN VISITED ABOUT FIVE TIMES BETWEEN MID-NOVEMBER AND MID-DECEMBER 1964 BY A PUERTO RICAN WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS "JORGE." ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCO, WHO TOLD HER HUSBAND OF THE PLIGHT OF JOSE VASQUEZ NEY, DURING THE SECOND OR THIRD MEETING, "JORGE" MENTIONED THE NAME OF "HORTENSIA." LATER IDENTIFIED AS HORTENSIA ORIZONDO MENSES, AND, AGAIN ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCO, ORIZONDO SAID THAT HE KNEW OROZCO'S CONTACT IN THE NATIVE AFFAIR.

5. "JORGE" DID NOT AT ANY TIME REPRESENT HIMSELF AS CIA. MRS. OROZCO ASSUMED THAT HE WAS SENT BY CIA. THIS ASSUMPTION SHE PASSED ON TO CAS SOURCE. "JORGE" NEVER IDENTIFIED THE ORGANIZATION FOR WHICH HE REPRESENTED BUT HE DID TELL MRS. OROZCO THAT HE WAS NOT FROM CIA. "JORGE" DID, HOWEVER, CONTINUE TO REPRESENT HIMSELF AS HAVING OFFICIAL BACKING FROM THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

6. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW THE NAME OF HER HUSBAND'S INTENDED PRIMARY CONTACT IN THE MARTI AREA. SHE MENTIONED THE NAME OF "CANDIDO" OLEA, A FISHERMAN, AND ONE PEDRO BARBI, THE CHEF AT THE CANDIDO MARIO RESTAURANT IN CARDENAS. OROZCO TOLD HIS WIFE THAT HE INTENDED TO SEE THESE PERSONS TO HELP HIM WITH HIS TRANSPORTATION TO HAVANA AND PROVIDE HIM WITH FUNDS. MRS. OROZCO CONTENDED AND BROADCASTED THE DAY BEFORE, 7 JANUARY, STATING THAT HE ILLEGITIMATELY HAD BEEN PICKED UP IN THE CARDENAS/MATANZAS AREA OF MATANZAS PROVINCE.

7. CAS SOURCE MENTIONED IN INITIAL PARAGRAPHS THAT SHE KNEW FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO RAISE EVEN A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS IN THE EXILE COMMUNITY. SHE SAID THAT SHE KNEW CRIZONDO DID NOT HAVE THE $1,000.00 FOR WHICH HAD BEEN SPENT FOR HER HUSBAND'S TRIP. THIS BEING THE TOTAL, I AM CONSERVATIVE ON THAT AMOUNT TO APPROXIMATELY $1,341.00. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHORTLY BEFORE HER HUSBAND'S DEPARTURE, ONLY $75.00 REMAINED OF THE INITIAL SUM.

8. MRS. OROZCO REPORTED SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW IF CRIZONDO CONSIDERED HER A COMPLETE FOOL BUT SHE DID NOT THINK THAT THEY HAD ANY MONEY FOR HER HUSBAND'S TRIP.

9. MRS. OROZCO TOLD CRIZONDO THAT SHE WAS STILL UNCERTAIN OF "JORGE'S" CREDENTIALS. MRS. OROZCO TOLD CRIZONDO THAT HER HUSBAND HAD PLACED GREAT TRUST IN CRIZONDO AND SHE, MRS. OROZCO, REALIZED THAT ANYTHING CRIZONDO WAS INVOLVED IN WAS TO HIS BEST ADVANTAGE BUT AT THE SAME TIME SHE COULD NOT BRING HERSELF TO FEEL THAT SAME CONFIDENCE IN "JORGE" AS SHE FELT IN CRIZONDO.

10. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT CRIZONDO HAD TOLD HER THAT "JORGE" WAS NOT CUBAN BUT PUERTO RICAN, AN AMERICAN CITIZEN WHO WORKED FOR THE "PENTAGON." OROZCO SAID THAT SHE HERSELF WAS NOT ACTIVELY WORKING FOR THE "PENTAGON" ANY LONGER BUT THAT THERE ARE TIMES WHEN HER FORMER EMPLOYEES NEED HELP AT WHICH TIMES THEY CALL UPON HER, OROZCO, AND "JORGE" WORKED FOR THE "PENTAGON."

11. CRIZONDO TOLD MRS. OROZCO THAT SHE WOULD PROVIDE TO MRS. OROZCO ANY MONEY THAT SHE NEEDED TO SUPPORT THE FAMILY. ON 4 & 5 JANUARY, CRIZONDO HAD GIVEN MRS. OROZCO $100.00 TO PAY HER RENT. OROZCO TOLD MRS. OROZCO THAT "JORGE" WOULD BE OUT OF TOWN FOR AN UNSPECIFIED PERIOD.

12. OROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT CRIZONDO HAD SET UP THE MEETING FOR WEDNESDAY MORNING, 9 DECEMBER, WITH THE TWO PERSONS WHO WOULD ACCOMPANY HIM ON THE TRIP. CRIZONDO MET HIM ON FLAGLER STREET AT A SPECIFIC CAFE WHICH CRIZONDO DID NOT MENTION TO SUB-SOURCE.

13. OROZCO SAID THAT HE HAD ASKED FOR A RECEIPT OF $400.00 FOR EACH MEMBER OF THE CREW IT IS UNCLEAR WHETHER OROZCO ACTUALLY RECEIVED THIS SUM OF MONEY FOR HIMSELF AS WELL PLUS A PROMISE TO TAKE CARE OF ALL OF THEIR FAMILIES IF THEY DID NOT RETURN.

14. OROZCO CALLED SUB-SOURCE BY TELEPHONE LATE ON THE EVENING OF 10 DECEMBER TO TELL HIM THAT HE WAS "ON HIS WAY TO THE KEYS." OROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT THE ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE MONEY AND THE ASSURANCES TO TAKE CARE OF THE FAMILIES HAD BEEN AGREED UPON.

15. AT A SECOND MEETING BETWEEN MRS. OROZCO AND CAS SOURCE, MRS. OROZCO TOLD CAS SOURCE THAT SHE HAD COME INTO THE POSSESSION OF SOME INFORMATION THAT HAD RECENTLY COME OUT OF CUBA. THIS INFORMATION INDICATED THAT SEVERAL ARRESTS HAD BEEN MADE IN THE SAME AREA IN WHICH HER HUSBAND INTENDED TO INFILTRATE. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE HAD ALSO HEARD A RADIO BROADCAST THE DAY BEFORE, 7 JANUARY 1964. MRS. OROZCO TOLD SAME CAS SOURCE MENTIONED IN INITIAL PARAGRAPHS THAT SHE KNEW FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO RAISE EVEN A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS IN THE EXILE COMMUNITY.

16. "JORGE" AND ORIZONDO ARRIVED AT HER HOME ABOUT 2000 HOURS, 8 JANUARY. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE TOLD "JORGE" THE INFORMATION ABOUT ARRESTS IN THE AREA AND MENTIONED A PERSON NAMED "PEDRO." MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT "JORGE" HAD PICKED UP HIS EARS AT THIS POINT. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE THOUGHT THAT "PEDRO" WAS A RESTAURANT IN CARDENAS, MATANZAS PROVINCE. ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCO, "JORGE" HAD TOLD HER THAT "PEDRO" WAS A FISHERMAN.

17. THE LICENSE NUMBER OF THE AUTOMOBILE IN WHICH "JORGE" AND ORIZONDO ARRIVED WAS NOTED AS A NEW YORK PLATE, BU-5523. THE LICENSE NUMBER WAS TRACED AND IT WAS REPORTED BY THE NEW YORK MOTOR VEHICLE AUTHORITIES THAT IT WAS REGISTERED TO ONE LEWIS BURNS, 75 EAST PARADE AVENUE, BUFFALO, NEW YORK. THE ONLY OTHER INFORMATION AVAILABLE FROM THE MOTOR VEHICLE RECORDS INDICATED THAT BURNS WAS BORN 11-10-98, THAT HE WAS RETIRED AND THAT THE AUTOMOBILE REGISTERED UNDER THIS NUMBER HAD BEEN A 1950 BUICK. MRS. OROZCO SAID SHE THOUGHT THAT THIS WAS THE SAME CAR "JORGE" HAD USED ON PREVIOUS VISITS.

18. OROZCO ALSO SHOWED CAS SOURCE A NOTE WHICH MRS. OROZCO IDENTIFIED AS HAVING BEEN WRITTEN BY CRIZONDO TO HER HUSBAND, MRS. OROZCO SAID TO TELL CRIZONDO THAT "JORGE" HAD TOLD HER THAT HIS NAME WAS "TORRES."

19. MRS. OROZCO REPORTED THAT ORIZONDO HAD RETURNED TO HER HOUSE THE MORNING AFTER HER VISIT WITH "JORGE." MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT ORIZONDO HAD BEEN VERY WATCHFUL AND THAT IT SEEMED TO HER OROZCO THAT THE PURPOSE OF CRIZONDO'S TRIP WAS TO MATTER OF WHITE.

20. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW IF ORIZONDO HAD ANY SPECIFIC PROPOSALS. SHE SAID THAT SHE KNEW FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO RAISE EVEN A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS IN THE EXILE COMMUNITY.

21. ORIZONDO TOLD OROZCO THAT SHE WOULD PROVIDE TO MRS. OROZCO ANY MONEY THAT SHE NEEDED TO SUPPORT THE FAMILY. ON 4 & 5 JANUARY, CRIZONDO HAD GIVEN MRS. OROZCO $100.00 TO PAY HER RENT.

22. OROZCO PAID MRS. OROZCO ANOTHER VISIT ON 13 JANUARY. DURING THIS VISIT, HE CONFIDED TO MRS. OROZCO THAT HE HAD NOT "JORGE" BUT "TORRES." "TORRES" SAID THAT HIS ORGANIZATION HAD NOT BEEN INTERESTED IN VASQUEZ BUT IN 40 AGENTS WHO WERE IN HIDING IN THE SAME HOUSE WITH VASQUEZ.

23. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE HAD NO SPECIFIC PROPOSALS. OROZCO TOLD CAS SOURCE THAT HE KNEW FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO RAISE EVEN A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS IN THE EXILE COMMUNITY.

24. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE WAS COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT THE NAME IN THE NOTE WAS THE SAME AS "JORGE" WHO HAD VISITED HER AND HER HUSBAND.

25. "JORGE" PAID AN UNANNOUNCED VISIT TO MRS. OROZCO ON 13 JANUARY. DURING THIS VISIT, HE CONFIDED TO MRS. OROZCO THAT HE HAD NOT "JORGE" BUT "TORRES." "TORRES" SAID THAT HIS ORGANIZATION HAD NOT BEEN INTERESTED IN VASQUEZ BUT IN 40 AGENTS WHO WERE IN HIDING IN THE SAME HOUSE WITH VASQUEZ.

26. MRS. OROZCO THEN COMMENTED THAT SHE KNEW FROM PERSONAL EXPERIENCE HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO RAISE EVEN A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS IN THE EXILE COMMUNITY.

27. MRS. OROZCO PAID MRS. OROZCO ANOTHER VISIT ON 13 JANUARY. DURING THIS VISIT, HE CONFIDED TO MRS. OROZCO THAT HE HAD NOT "JORGE" BUT "TORRES." "TORRES" SAID THAT HIS ORGANIZATION HAD NOT BEEN INTERESTED IN VASQUEZ BUT IN 40 AGENTS WHO WERE IN HIDING IN THE SAME HOUSE WITH VASQUEZ.

28. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE WAS COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT THE NAME IN THE NOTE WAS THE SAME AS "JORGE" WHO HAD VISITED HER AND HER HUSBAND.

29. ORIZONDO VISITED MRS. OROZCO LATER THAT SAME EVENING OF 13 JANUARY. SHE SEEMED SURPRISED TO LEARN THAT "JORGE" HAD VISITED MRS. OROZCO EARLIER THAT DAY. ORIZONDO ATTEMPTED TO CONVINCE MRS. OROZCO THAT "JORGE" MENTIONED IN A HOTEL SHE HAD LEFT FOR OROZCO WAS NOT JORGE NOR MALCOLM CAROSO, A FRIEND OF OROZCO'S.

30. IN ATTEMPTING TO RECONSTRUCT HOW MUCH MONEY WAS SPENT TO PREPARE THE BOAT AND EQUIPMENT FOR OROZCO'S TRIP, IT APPEARS LIKELY THAT OROZCO EXAGGERATED WHEN HE SAID THAT HE HAD ASKED FOR AND RECEIVED $400.00 FOR EACH MEMBER OF THE CREW. MRS. OROZCO HAS STATED THAT OROZCO GIVEN EACH $200.00 AND SHE THOUGHT BUT WAS NOT COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT HE HAD GIVEN EACH OF THEM AN ADDITIONAL UNSPECIFIED SUM.

31. AS ATTACHMENT B TO THIS MEMORANDUM, A COPY OF ANOTHER NOTE FROM ORIZONDO TO OROZCO RECOMMENDING AN INDIVIDUAL WHO COULD PROVIDE A BOAT FOR HIS INFILTRATION IS APPENDED FOR YOUR REFERENCE. THIS INDIVIDUAL IS BELIEVED TO BE ACSI SOURCE NO. 693.

32. CAS WOULD APPRECIATE ACSI COMMENTS ON THE ABOVE PARAGRAPHS, AND ORIZONDO. SINCE IT IS NOW APPARENT THAT "JORGE" AND "TORRES" ARE ONE AND THE SAME, IT IS BELIEVED THAT FURTHER INVESTIGATION INTO THE IDENTITY OF THIS INDIVIDUAL IS UNNECESSARY.

---

BEBO -

I AM LEAVING YOU $500 SO THAT YOU CAN GO TO SEE ALDO EARLY AND BEGIN THE PREPARATIONS. TONIGHT I WILL HAVE $200 MORE AND I WILL TRY TO OBTAIN THE REST. I FIND OUT IF THEY OBTAINED SOME MONEY. I DIDN'T SAY ANYTHING ABOUT THIS BUT IT WOULD BE CONVENIENT ANYWAY. JORGE WAS HERE TONIGHT. YOU CAN COME TOMORROW NIGHT TO ARRANGE ALL THE DETAILS.

TAKE CARE OF THE TANK AS YOU THINK IS BEST. SINCE YOU ALREADY PAID FOR IT, YOU CAN PICK IT UP AND TELL THE BOYS THAT DUE TO THE BAD WEATHER IT IS BEST TO WAIT, IN ORDER TO AVOID HAVING THE "RUMOR" SPREAD DOWN FLAGLER STREET, I DON'T THINK IT IS CONVENIENT TO SAY ANYTHING ON THIS OTHER MATTER TO THE EYES UNTIL LATER ON.

---

BEBO -

I CAME TO SEE YOU BECAUSE I HAD TO SPEAK TO YOU. I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH PROGRESS YOU HAD IN THE NEGOTIATIONS