# 会議の記録

**発信者（発）:** 不明  
**受信者（着）:** 不明  
**日時:** 1960年2月1日

1. Those present were: Vidal PP/Ph, Alexander Hurst (Williams) PP/EAD, Charles Jenny (Niss) w/Ph, and Philip Tooney (Thompson) w/Ph.

2. Mr. (Lopez) have a report of his contacts in Cuba after receiving his autos which were brought up by Mr. (Goe) and given to Mr. (Lopez). Mr. (Goe) said that he had given graphical sketches of Leberalista Pasco, Laurano Batista, Martinez Arang, Abien de Leon and Suchet regarding the situation representative. He had also turned over a report of Martino Fraga on the signs of the Insurrección de la Revolución.

3. Mr. (Lopez) report was taped and a transcript will be forwarded to Mr. PP/Ph.

4. Specific recommendations made by Mr. (Goe) included having Herbert Matthews go to Havana and try to influence Castro. Matthews has a good reputation throughout the 25th of July Movement and could help in an approach to Castro. A visit by a journalist to do a broadcast on Cuba was also recommended. Mr. (Goe) feels that Castro will be in power for a long time to come and that we should try to influence him. He is seriously affected by any defections and these might be concerned, as Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countermanded officials. Two men who were mentioned as ripe for detection are Auto de Hacienda and Opero in Caracas. Mr. (Goe) also recommended contact with Padre Alberto de Castro in Caracas. This padre was formerly Fidel's instructor. Then Fidel was in Caracas he was scolded by Fidel Castro when Fidel treated with great respect according to sources. The Padre and Fidel spent about one and one half hours alone together at this time. This priest should be checked as a possible influence on Fidel. The possibility of a split between Fidel and Raul should be exploited. Raul is cold and mean and the fact that he is Fidel's brother does not carry too much weight.