# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

**発信者（発）:** LIMITED DISSEM CE/EXO INFO CE/R, CE/R/IO, DC/CE, CE/LGL, CE/WUMB  
**受信者（着）:** PRIORITY MOSCOW INFO MINSK  
**日時:** 012139Z MAY 98  

*SECRET*  
*STAFF*  
*SUBJECT: <ASSASSINATIONS> RECORDS REVIEW BOARD AND DEPT OF STATE REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE IN APPROACHING <FSB/SVR> FOR OSWALD FILE*  
*REF: NONE*  

1. ACTION REQUIRED: WOULD APPRECIATE THOUGHTS ON  
*BELOW PROPOSAL TO APPROACH <FSB/SVR> SEEKING ACCESS TO FILE ON <LEE HARVEY (OSWALD)>.*  

2. THE <ASSASSINATIONS> RECORDS REVIEW BOARD (ARRB), ESTABLISHED BY PUBLIC LAW 102-526 IN OCTOBER 1992, HAS THE PRESIDENTIAL MANDATE TO IDENTIFY, SECURE, AND MAKE AVAILABLE ALL RECORDS RELATED TO THE <ASSASSINATION> OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. THE IDENTIFIED (DECLASSIFIED) RECORDS WILL BE HOUSED IN THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION. THE ARRB HAS HAD SOME DEALINGS WITH THE KGB, BEGINNING WITH THEIR REQUEST FOR ACCESS TO THE RESTRICTED <KGB> HISTORY FROM THE 1960'S. THE ARRB'S PREMISE IS TO DECLASSIFY AS MUCH INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE, EVEN DOCUMENTS ONLY MOST TANGENTIALLY RELATED TO THE <KENNEDY> <ASSASSINATION>.  

3. P.L. 102-526 SPECIFICALLY STATES:  
THE SECRETARY OF STATE SHOULD CONTACT THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF RUSSIA AND SEEK THE DISCLOSURE OF ALL RECORDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FORMER SOVIET UNION, INCLUDING THE RECORDS OF THE KOMITET GOSUDARSTVENNOY BEZOPASNOSTI (KGB) AND THE GLAVNOYE UPRAVLENIYE KGB (GRU), RELEVANT TO THE <ASSASSINATION> OF <PRESIDENT KENNEDY> AND SEEK DISCLOSURE OF SUCH INFORMATION.  

4. THE ARRB HAS REQUESTED STATE AND AGENCY HELP IN GETTING ACCESS TO THE KGB RECORDS ON OSWALD. THE RECORDS, ORIGINALLY HELD  

5. THE ARRB CHAIRMAN HAS COME BACK TO STATE TO ASK THEY CONTACT THE AGENCY WITH THE FOLLOWING REQUEST:  
*CHECK WITH THE <FSB/SVR> TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE RUSSIANS RETAINED A COPY OF THE LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S KGB FILE IN MOSCOW? CAN WE GET ACCESS TO THE FILE AND, PRESUMABLY, OBTAIN A COPY FOR THE ARRB?*  
*WE NOTE THAT THE ARRB WILL PROBABLY PUSH HARD TO DECLASSIFY RUSSIAN DOCUMENTS AS WELL. OBVIOUSLY SUCH A REQUEST COULD HAVE SEVERAL IMPLICATIONS WHICH WE MUST CAREFULLY CONSIDER, I.E., THE RUSSIANS MIGHT ASK FOR FILES OF THE ROSENBERGS OR OTHER NOTORIOUS PERSONALITIES. THE HQS CONTEXT IS THAT WE ARE GRAPPLING WITH THE ARRB ON A VARIETY OF OTHER SERIOUS DECLASSIFICATION/DISCLOSURE ISSUES AND WE MIGHT BE ABLE IN A BETTER NEGOTIATING POSITION IF WE COULD OBVIOUSLY SUCH AN ACTION HAS TREMENDOUS IMPLICATIONS AND WE WELCOME A FULL DIALOGUE FROM STATION ON THIS MATTER.*  

6. FILE: NONE. CL BY: 714549, CL REASON: 1.5(D), DECL ON: X5, DRV FROM: LIA 3-82.  
*RELNO: DORLS0100952954*  
*ORIG: CE/EXO(CHENGMD,39263); AUTH: AC/CE/R (BANNERMAN); COORD: C/CE/R/IO (ZERSUSEN); C/CE/WUMB (WARD); INFO: CE/LGL (WATSON);*  
*END OF MESSAGE*