# 秘密文書

**発信者（発）:** PARIS  
**受信者（着）:** DIRECTOR  
**日時:** 19 JUN 1963  

SECRET 71272  
KPRTY DIR INFO PRITY MAJOR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9668  
TYPIC  
REF A PART 6088 (IN) (6/1964)  
B PAR 9849 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS)  
- RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 18 JUNE. IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PART 8624. RAY HAS ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT WITH UNRUMBLE 6, UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND HAS APPROACHED HIM PAST SEPARATELY FROM UNRUMBLE 2 WITH SOME INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIM DIRECTLY IN PAST BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP WITH UNRUMBLE 2. UNRUMBLE 2 WILL NEVERTHELESS BE WRITING UNRUMBLE 6 CURRENT RELATIONSHIPS. RAY WAS DRIVEN BY JERVAY ALREADY. RAY SPENT MORE TIME AND WHO SEEMS BE CLOSEST TO HIM AMONG CONTACTS PARIS.  
- RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN NOT TO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORKING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES DIR 48158 AND PART 9667 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS).  
- POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUDE TALK WITH FRANQUI IS IN 8 JUNE.  
- RAY ASKED FOR FOLLOWS  
  A. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMULATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.  
  B. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN IDENTICAL SV SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE, WOULD APPRECIATE HQ'S PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SV SYSTEM.  
  C. RAY ALSO ASKED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP SOME PAPER AS DISCUSSED WITH HUMAN PER PART 5947. WOULD APPRECIATE HQ'S FOLLOW-UP ON THIS.  
- RAY FEELS ONE SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT OF RAY'S TRIP WAS RE-  
- PRESENTED TO ORGANIZE RESEARCH TEAMS. BELIEVE HE HAS SET WELL WITH MANUAL GROUVER AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE BACK SUPPORT UNION TO ELIMINATE SOME PAST PROBLEMS HUMAN RELATIONSHIP.  
- RAY DEPARTING PART OF 615 AM IN 1960 HOURS TO SJ.