# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**発信者（発）:** DIRECTOR  
**受信者（着）:** 不明  
**日時:** 3 JUNE 1963  

1. KENYA PREMIER ASSET  
   a. AMTEPI (ITEM A), LONG TIME KENYA ASSET FOR PREMIER OPS, WILL VISIT KENYA 5 TO 15, JUST TO OPEN JEWELRY STORE IN ITEM B. HAS OFFERED AID OF SERVICE TO STA IN ANY WAY POSSIBLE INCLUDING FURNISHING COVER IN NEW STORE.  
   THOUGH LEFT PREMIER EARLY 1961, REMAINS PERSONAL GRATA TO RIDE BEING GAVE AID TO CURRENT REGIME DURING PRE-REVOLUTION DAYS AND DOES NOT NOW OPEN OPPOSITION STAND. IS CONSIDERED BY CURRENT REGIME AS A POLITICAL BUSINESSMAN AND CAN ENTER OFFICIAL INSTALLATIONS MEET WITH PREMIER DIPLOMATS. FOR EXAMPLE, PLANS:  
   1. PREMIER PASSPORT AT EMBASSY, PARIS, OF CURRENT TRIP.  
   2. IN PARTNERSHIP WITH ITEM C WILL OPEN JEWELRY STORE ROME. SAYS ITEM C FULLY TRUSTWORTHY ANTI-REGIME AND COULD BE MADE VISIBLE OF ARRANGEMENTS.  
   3. AMTEPI/I IS PARTNER IN NEW YORK OF ITEM D WHICH IS CLOSELY LINKED TO ITEM E OF MILAN. COULD ALSO OFFER COVER IN ITEM E BUT BELIEVES SINCE 1961 HAS MORE DIRECT CONTROL OVER ROME JEWELRY STORE.  

2. RECOMMENDED STA ESTABLISH CONTACT BOONSI DISCUSS VARIOUS OPS PROBLEMS POSSIBILITIES, ITEM COVER FOR PREMIER OPS SUPPORT AS PLANNED. IF COVER FOR SUCH DER 3680 STILL UNSOLVED, STA SHOULD RAISE PROBLEM WITH AMTEPI/I, REALIZING THOUGH THAT LATER MAY BE RELEVANT OTHER COVER IN OWN TIME TO PERSON WHO BROKE CLAMOROUSLY WITH REGIME. STA MAY ALSO WISH ASK AMTEPI/I VIEWS OF POTENTIAL PREMIER INSTALLATIONS FOR WORKING ASSISTANTS TARGET PERSONALITIES.  
   STA SHOULD PREX FILE DISCUSS ALL OTHER PREMIER PROBLEMS DESIRED. IN ALL ASPECTS, STA JUST ASKED BY AMTEPI/I JUDGMENT. NOWS LAWYER IS NOT PRINCIPAL AGENT TYPE.  
   C. RECRUITER HAS BEEN HIGHLY VALUABLE AS WITNESS INFORMANT, SPOTTER, OPS SUPPORT TYPE.  

5. AMTEPI/I WILL STAY WITH ITEM F. CAN BE REACHED THERE OR PREFERABLY THROUGH ITEM E MANAGEMENT. IF MILAN CAN BE REACHED THROUGH ITEM E. OFFICER MAKING CONTACT SHOULD IDENTIFY SELF AS FRIEND OF BELL THOMPSON AND REFER TO THOMPSON'S TALK WITH AMTEPI/I ON 31 MAY IN NEW YORK. SHOULD USE ENGLISH IN INITIAL PHONE CONTACT. AMTEPI/I'S ENGLISH AND ITALIAN ARE FAIR BUT RECOMMENDED SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSIONS BE HELD IN AMTEPI/I NATIVE LANGUAGE.  

END OF MESSAGE