# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

**発信者（発）:** FBI  
**受信者（着）:** DIRECTOR, FBI  
**日時:** 08/18/1965  

SBE, REL, WINNER, MIRIAM FINKELMAN, AKA, PERSONAL HISTORY AND BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT  
RESTRICTIONS: 1B  
CURRENT STATUS: Redact  
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998  

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA  
COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO, LHM  

---

# MEMORANDUM

**発信者（発）:** SAC, CINCINNATI (105-3048)(C)  
**受信者（着）:** DIRECTOR, FBI  
**日時:** 10/6/65  

SUBJECT: MYRIAM FINKELMAN WINNER IS - CUBA (00 - Cincinnati)  

Re Legat, Paris, letter to Bureau 8/18/65.  
Enclosed for Bureau are nine copies of letterhead memorandum with accompanying evaluation memo concerning captioned matter. It is classified Confidential because of the source from which the information emanated.  

The source is identified as Liaison Section.  

In Spain, has never been to the U.S., and there is no reason to believe she will come to this country within the near future.  

---

# RE: MYRIAM FINKELMAN Y WINER

**発信者（発）:**  
**受信者（着）:**  

Sam Benton - Brother - same as above  
Francis Lyons - Sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, Maine  
Salomon Finkelman - Brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue, Miami, Florida  
Clara Pelaster - Sister - Miami, Florida  
Julie Abramson - Niece - 57 State Road, Portland, Maine  

According to Dr. Manuel Cortina, who was formerly acquainted with Winer in Santa Clara, she is currently Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address, and stated there is no indication she will leave Spain and come to the United States.  

---

# MEMORANDUM

**発信者（発）:** LEGAT, PARIS (105-3551) (RUC)  
**受信者（着）:** DIRECTOR, FBI  
**日時:** 8/18/65  

Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 6/29/65.  
There are enclosed for the Bureau and Cincinnati each one copy of a memorandum dated 8/9/65 prepared by the Liaison Section (CIA) American Embassy, Madrid, Spain, containing background information regarding the subject.  

It appears that the subject is presently residing in Madrid and is employed as the Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in Madrid.  

The Consular Section has no record of an application for a United States visa from the subject.  

---

# MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Consular Section

**発信者（発）:** Liaison Section  
**日時:** 9 August 1965  

According to usually reliable Cuban exile sources in Madrid, the subject was born in Poland on 5 February 1922; she became a Cuban citizen in 1945. Subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on 12 May 1963, bearing Cuban passport #43059 issued on 24 July 1956. Her last known address in Cuba was Ronda 17, Apt. 18, Habana.  

The following is Subject's educational history:  
1930 to 1936 - Primary school at Ludwipol, Poland  
1938 to 1942 - High school-Instituto Marianao, Habana  
1942 to 1947 - University of Habana (degree in Philosophy and Letters)  
1958 - University of Columbia, New York (summer school studying German literature).  

From 1956 to 1961, Subject was a professor of literature and languages at the Central University in Santa Clara, Las Villas. She held the same position from 1961 to 1962 at the University of Habana. She reportedly speaks English, German and Spanish fluently.  

On arrival in Madrid in 1963, Subject listed the following members of her immediate family:  
Anna Winer - mother - 1800 S. Treasure Drive, Miami Beach, Florida  
Sam Benton - brother - same as above  
Francis Lyons - sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, Maine  
Salomon Finkelman - brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue, Miami, Florida  
Clara Pelaster - sister - Miami, Florida  
Julie Abramson - niece - 57 State Road, Portland, Maine  

According to Manuel Cortina, who was formerly acquainted with Subject in Santa Clara, the Subject is currently the Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address; however, he said Subject is believed to be living with an unidentified Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas; they are not married. Source has no additional information concerning Subject's current activities.  

---