# メモランダム

**発信者（発）:** Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.  
**受信者（着）:** Mr. W. C. Sullivan  
**日時:** 03/17/1965  

In 1954, a procedure was approved whereby we could attribute certain information received from James Angleton, CIA, under the symbol "Bureau Informant 100." This information, for the most part, emanated from a liaison arrangement which CIA maintained with the Israeli Intelligence Service and from other sources under the control of Angleton. Much of the information developed by Angleton was not disseminated within CIA but he felt that the data should be passed on to the Bureau. Allen Dulles gave him authorization to handle dissemination in this matter. We continue to receive information of value on a regular basis.

By SAC letter 54-27 dated 5/25/54, we informed the field regarding Bureau Informant 100 and issued instructions that information from this source be described under an appropriate T symbol and characterization. Because of the passage of time and since some offices have had rare occasion to receive Bureau Informant 100 information, it is believed desirable to reiterate instructions to the field. This should be done since the Informant has been developing information in recent months regarding the travel of U. S. citizens to Russia via Israel. Such travelers come from various parts of the U. S.

ACTION:  
If approved, there is enclosed herewith a recommended SAC letter.  

Enclosure  
1 - Mr. Belmont  
1 - Mr. Sullivan  
1 - Mr. Wannall  
1 - Mr. Branigan  
1 - Mr. W. Smith  
1 - Mr. Baumgardner  
1 - Mr. Bland  
1 - Liaison  
1 - Mr. Papich  
SJP:chs  
(10)