# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

**発信者（発）:** TRENT, ROLAND E.  
**受信者（着）:** LEG, MX  
**日時:** 03/13/1964  

LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, BKG, LIAISON WITH MX AUTHORITIES

On 3-13-64, MARGARITA MINGUIA, Visa Section, U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., made available visa file data concerning ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY, holder of Cuban passport No. 26367, issued in December, 1959, with expiration date in 1964.

Addresses for this individual were given as Miguel Aleman #259, Apartment #301, Colonia Roma, Mexico, D.F., and Calle Arellano Esquitina "C", #269, Havana, Cuba.

MITRANI's date of birth is shown as December 29, 1936, at Havana, Cuba, and he is further described as fair complexion, 5' 7", 176 lbs; Cuban national, no scars or marks, brown hair and green eyes. The visa file data also shows MITRANI to be of Turkish extraction.

MITRANI secured a one entry B-2 visa on 3-27-61 valid through 4-27-61, for the alleged purpose of a pleasure trip to Los Angeles, California.

The visa file card contains a photograph of ERNESTO MITRANI and this card indicated his employment as of January, 1961, as a merchant and manufacturer of plastics.

The application made by MITRANI as the U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., in January, 1961, was for a non-immigrant visa to visit the U.S.

MITRANI reportedly never publically denounced the Cuban regime although CIA file data reflects that someone wrote to the Cuban Embassy in 1960 stating that MITRANI was a "spy" and cooperating with anti-Castro forces.

MITRANI reportedly acting as a "cut-out" supplied one report to the CIA Mexico City station which was submitted on or about 8-13-62.

Above CIA data secured from DAVID PHILLIPS.