# ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA

**発信者（発）:** FBI  
**受信者（着）:** HQ  
**日時:** 04/05/1962

MICHAEL J. P. MALONE, Vice-President, Czarniakow-Rhonda Company, 106 Wall St., NYC, who is also employed by ROBERT KLEBERG of the King Ranch, Kingsville, Texas, advised on 3/30/62, that he had memoranda of his recent conversations in Washington, D.C., which he furnished to the NYO. The memoranda of MALONE were written for ROBERT KLEBERG as a result of KLEBERG's meeting with Vice President LYNDON B. JOHNSON on 3/15/62.

In connection with MALONE's conversation with Mr. HERBERT of the CIA, who was described as an assistant to Colonel KLEBERG, MALONE wrote that HERBERT had informed him that the CIA separated the section in CIA which deals solely with Cuba matters. MALONE wrote in his memorandum that HERBERT reported to him that he did not agree with the general opinion of Vice President LYNDON JOHNSON relative to Cuba. HERBERT believed that President JOHN F. KENNEDY would act in the event of a crisis in Cuba and he believed that the opinion expressed by LYNDON B. JOHNSON with ROBERT KLEBERG on 3/15/62, was true as of many months ago.

MALONE wrote in his memorandum to KLEBERG that HERBERT was of the opinion that within the next two to three months, a favorable and appropriate climate will be created inside Cuba which would be favorable to some type of activity to overthrow the CASTRO Government.

MALONE in the same memorandum wrote that HERBERT expressed the opinion that the US Government should not loan Chile 385 million dollars as proposed by TEODORO MOSCOSO of the Alliance For Progress Program. HERBERT stated that he was very familiar with Chile and did not believe that they were in a position to intelligently utilize such a large sum of money and expressed an opinion that at the Foreign Ministers meeting at Punta del Este, Uruguay, in January, 1962, Chile was...

MALONE also wrote in his memorandum that HERBERT indicated that there was a CIA plan in the formative stage relative to Cuba, and that he was hopeful that they would have something to work on soon which would give CIA authority on which to operate. HERBERT also indicated to MALONE that a military build-up can be expected in the Florida area, and that a minor one is already taking place at the present time at the US Naval Base at Guantanamo, Oriente Province, Cuba. HERBERT stressed that out of necessity future operations against Cuba would have to take place from an off-shore area because of security of the operation. MALONE also wrote in his memo that MAECHLIN told him to tell ALBERTO FERNANDEZ of Key Biscayne, Florida, to be patient and that before long, CIA would fully utilize his abilities and equipment.

MALONE also furnished on 3/30/62, a copy of his memo to ROBERT KLEBERG relative to MALONE's conversation on 3/15/62, with SERAFINO ROMUALDI of the Latin American Section of the AFL-CIO. In this memo to KLEBERG, MALONE wrote that ROMUALDI stated that President KENNEDY was still being pushed and pulled by the "Intelligence" who were identified as ARTHUR SCHLESINGER and ADLAI STEVENSON, toward following a soft line relative to Cuba. ROMUALDI told MALONE that RICHARD N. GOODWIN of the US Department of State apparently was waking up to the fact that the future of President KENNEDY depends upon a strong, firm policy and the elimination of CASTRO and Communism in Cuba immediately. ROMUALDI told MALONE that his opinion of GOODWIN's present thinking was gathered from individuals who dealt directly with GOODWIN concerning Cuba.

MALONE wrote to KLEBERG that ROMUALDI also recommended that he, MALONE, and his associates attempt to get an appointment with Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY relative to Cuba as ROBERT KENNEDY is the strong influence on the President and has been pressuring the President to get rid of what he calls the "featherheads".