# アンチ・フィデル・カストロ活動 IS-CUBA

**発信者（発）:** FBI  
**受信者（着）:** HQ  
**日時:** 1962年3月29日  

MICHAEL J. P. MALONE, 副社長, Rionda Company, 106 Wall Street, NYC, who was also employed by the King Ranch of Kingsville, Texas, advised on 3/20/62, that he had accompanied ROBERT KLEBERG of the King Ranch to Washington, DC, on 3/15/62, for KLEBERG's meeting with Vice-President LYNDON B. JOHNSON at 4:00 p.m. on that date.

MALONE advised that he did not accompany KLEBERG to the meeting with Vice-President JOHNSON, but KLEBERG informed him that they discussed the Cuban problem and what course of action the US was going to follow in this matter. KLEBERG, according to MALONE, was advised by Vice-President JOHNSON that President JOHN F. KENNEDY has no contemplated plans at the present time for any large scale movement against Cuba, and there are no plans for the use of US troops in Cuba.

MALONE advised that KLEBERG told him that Vice-President JOHNSON stated that President KENNEDY was much concerned about the world situation, and is devoting most of his time to the problems relative to Berlin, Laos, and South Vietnam.

MALONE advised that KLEBERG stated that from his conversation with Vice-President JOHNSON, it was clear to him that the present administration has no intention of using US military force in the Cuban problem, and that the Cuban problem takes 4th place in the order of importance as far as President KENNEDY is concerned.

MALONE further advised on March 20, 1962, that while in Washington, DC, he had made arrangements to contact Colonel KING of the CIA. MALONE stated that in conversation with him, the question of United States action in Cuba was discussed, and he did not agree with the opinion expressed by Vice-President JOHNSON. MALONE that he and his associates should get together with Senators in Washington who also share the same opinion that the perfect arrangement with the Cuban exiles is to exert a certain degree of influence over the president.

MALONE stated on 3/20/62 that he also had a meeting on 3/15/62 with his CIA contact, Charles Machin. MALONE stated that Machin gave his clear directive that President KENNEDY and the US would at some time make a move in Cuba. Machin stated that the CIA continues to operate but noted in the company’s authority with which they would like to carry out their plans. MALONE that MALONE and his associates attempt to see Attorney General Robert Kennedy, but some pressure could not be brought to bear on the Cuban matter from Attorney General KENNEDY.

MALONE advised that from his conversations with CIA on 3/15/62, and from the conversation of ROBERT KLEBERG with Vice-President JOHNSON, he definitely was confused as to whether or not the US had any definite plans for participation in an attempt to overthrow the present Cuban government. MALONE states that from conversations with other individuals in Washington, he got the impression that the Cuban Revolutionary Council was falling apart, and that Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDENA was exerting little influence over the other exiles in the Miami area.