# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

**発信者（発）:** HSCA  
**受信者（着）:** NOSENKO, YURI  
**日時:** 06/20/1978  

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKOの証言

米国下院、暗殺に関する特別委員会、ジョン・F・ケネディの暗殺に関する小委員会が、1978年6月20日午後6時20分に中央情報局本部のI-D室で開催された。ルイ・ストークス議員が議長を務めた。

出席者：ストークス、プレイヤー、バーク、フィシアン、デバイン、ソーヤー議員。また、G.R.ブレイキー、G.コーンウェル、M.ゴールドスミス、R.モリソン、E.バーニング、M.ジャクソン、J.スミス、K.クライン、S.ブレイディも出席。

議長は、委員会が再開されることを宣言した。証人であるユリ・ノセンコが再び委員会の前に呼ばれた。

ノセンコ氏は、昨晩の誓いを守るように注意を受けた。

ノセンコ氏は、オズワルドのファイルがミンスクから持ち込まれた際に立ち会ったことを証言した。ノセンコ氏は、オズワルドのファイル全体を読む機会があったか尋ねられたが、ノセンコ氏は「いいえ」と答えた。

ノセンコ氏は、オズワルドがソ連に来た年を尋ねられ、「1959年」と答えた。

ノセンコ氏は、オズワルドが精神的に不安定であると判断された理由についても証言した。彼は、オズワルドが自殺をほのめかしたために、ソ連に留まることが許可されたと述べた。

ノセンコ氏は、KGBがオズワルドを監視していたことを証言し、オズワルドが精神的に不安定であるために、KGBが彼に対して特別な措置を取らなかった理由についても説明した。

ノセンコ氏は、オズワルドがソ連に滞在することを許可されたのは、KGBが彼の行動を監視するためであったと述べた。

ノセンコ氏は、KGBがオズワルドをアメリカに送り返すことを選ばなかった理由についても説明した。彼は、KGBがオズワルドを監視することを選んだと述べた。

ノセンコ氏は、精神的に不安定な人間がどのように扱われるかについても証言し、オズワルドのケースが特異であることを強調した。

---

提供された文書は、主にLee Harvey Oswaldに関する調査と、彼に対するKGBの監視についての証言を含んでいます。以下は文書の内容です。

---

Mr. Nosenko. No, sir. I wasn't aware of this.

Mr. Klein. Looking at that document in front of you --

Mr. Nosenko. Right.

Mr. Klein. -- is that a hospital record?

Mr. Nosenko. Oh, yes, sure. It is a hospital record.

Mr. Klein. And whose hospital record? Does it have a name on it?

Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir. It is from Botkin Hospital.

Mr. Klein. Whose name is it?

Mr. Nosenko. Lee Harvey Oswald.

Mr. Klein. Does it say what date he was admitted?

Mr. Nosenko. Discharged, admitted 23rd, discharged 28th.

Mr. Klein. What year is that?

Mr. Nosenko. October of 1959.

Mr. Klein. And does it have on the bottom the diagnosis why he was in the hospital?

Mr. Nosenko. Incised wound of one-third of the left forearm.

Mr. Klein. And that date, October of 1959, is that when Oswald first came to the Soviet Union and cut his wrist?

Mr. Nosenko. I cannot tell you dates, sir. I do not remember.

Mr. Klein. You have in front of you the other document which told -- Number 8 -- what date he came to the Soviet Union. Is that still there?

Mr. Nosenko. No, sir. This is admittance to the hospital and discharge.

Mr. Klein. Number 8?

Mr. Nosenko. Arrival, October 16.

Mr. Klein. And the date on the hospital admittance is what date?

Mr. Nosenko. Twenty-third of October.

Mr. Klein. And would you turn to the hospital admittance form, the one I just gave you, to the third page, please?

Mr. Nosenko. Yes.

Mr. Klein. And do you see where it says "History of Present Illness"?

Mr. Nosenko. No, I don't see.

Mr. Klein. On the third page?

Mr. Nosenko. I have the third page.

Mr. Klein. It has Number 6 on the top of the page, but it's the third page on the document.

Mr. Nosenko. Oh, Number 6, History of Present Illness. Yes. Just a second.

Mr. Klein. Would you glance through that and would you tell us if this is the hospital report from when Lee Harvey Oswald cut his wrist and was taken to Botkin Hospital?

Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.

Mr. Klein. Now, would you turn to the next to the last page. It has a 13 on the right-hand side. Do you see that page?

Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.

Mr. Klein. The next to the last page.

Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.

Mr. Klein. And do you see where it says, two-thirds of the way to the bottom, "Psychiatric Department" underlined?

Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.

Mr. Klein. Would you read what is said under that?

Mr. Nosenko. "His mind is clear; perception is correct; no hallucination or deliriums. He answers the questions legible and logically; he has a firm desire to remain in the Soviet Union; no psychiatric symptoms were noted; the patient is not dangerous for other people; his condition permits him to stay in Psychiatric Department by an order of the Assistant to the Chief Physicians, Dr. Kornika. The patient is transferred to the Seventh Ward."

Mr. Klein. Is there anything in there to indicate he is mentally unstable?

Mr. Nosenko. Here I do not see.

Mr. Klein. Does that report indicate that he was normal?

Mr. Nosenko. Here I do not see what I have seen. But this you receive from the Soviet Government, and if you think you received the true things, what was in file, you are wrong.

Mr. Klein. That was by the CIA?

Mr. Nosenko. Where they asked questions in such form which later my answer will be interpreted in any way, however they want to interrogate us.

Mr. Klein. That was by CIA?

Mr. Nosenko. And I cannot tell you what I did say. I cannot remember dates. You must understand, it's hundreds of interrogations; hundreds.

Mr. Klein. This period that you are telling us about, you were questioned by the CIA during that period, is that correct?

Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sure.

Mr. Klein. Were you questioned during that period by FBI?

Mr. Nosenko. I questioned by FBI in February, yes.

---

この文書は、アメリカの情報機関における証言に関するものであり、特にオズワルドやソビエト連邦に関する情報が含まれています。証言者は、CIAとのやり取りや、オズワルドの扱いについて詳細に述べています。また、証言者自身の経歴や、ソビエト連邦からの亡命に関する背景も語られています。

証言者は、CIAがオズワルドに対してどのように対応したか、また自らの立場についての疑問を呈しています。文書の中では、CIAの内部での決定や、証言者の意見が交わされています。証言者は、CIAが自分をどのように扱ったかについての不満や疑念を表明しています。

この証言は、アメリカの情報機関における運営や、冷戦時代の国際関係における重要な側面を示しています。

---

Mr. Klein. Do you have any recollection of being asked these questions and giving the answers that you just read to us?  
Mr. Nosenko. Sir, I told you, and I will tell, I do not remember their questions, and I do not remember my answers; but I tried to be truthful with them. Then was period of time when I have seen that they were simply laughing at me; I rejected to answer questions, and whenever they were asking, I would answer, "I do not remember, I do not know; I do not remember."  
Mr. Klein. These answers, do they say "I do not know, I do not remember" or do these give responsive answers?  
Mr. Nosenko. Sir, I do not trust this document prepared by people in those years.  
Mr. Klein. Is it your testimony that these might not be accurate questions and answers?  
Mr. Nosenko. My opinion -- I cannot tell you exactly, I say might be.  
Mr. Klein. You testified --  
Mr. Nosenko. One more thing: If we are going into this, a number of interrogations; I was under drugs, and on me was used a number of drugs, and I know that, and hallucinations and talking during night and sodium and everything, even many others, and a number of things were absolutely incoherent.  
Mr. Klein. This hostile interrogation that you have been referring to, when did it begin?  
Mr. Nosenko. Arrested me 4th of April, 1964, started to interrogate me in two days. They interrupted -- I don't know interrogate a month, two, made break; then again, then again period of no interrogation; then again interrogations, up to 24 hours, not giving me possibility to sleep.  
Mr. Klein. And this was all after April 4, 1964?  
Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.  
That is why I will not take as a document anything what concerns interrogations in hostile, absolutely hostile, situation.  
Mr. Klein. You testified in detail yesterday about the cable which you saw which was sent from Mexico City to the First Chief Directorate in Moscow, and you testified that you actually read that cable and that it told that Oswald was in Mexico City and he wanted permission for visa to come to the Soviet Union. Do you remember reading that cable and describing it for us in detail, how long it was?  
Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.  
Mr. Klein. Did you ever say to anyone that after Oswald went to Minsk, the next time you heard of him was in connection with Oswald's application to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for a Soviet reentry visa, and you did not know how Mexico City advised Moscow of the subject's application; your knowledge resulted from an oral inquiry of your department by M.I. Turalin? Did you ever say that, that you did not know how Mexico City advised Moscow of Oswald's application?  
Mr. Nosenko. I do not remember. I am telling you what I have seen, cable, what was told through Lieutenant Colonel Alekseev to Turalin the opinion of Second Chief Directorate, KGB in general.  
Mr. Klein. I draw your attention to page 30 of the FBI report in front of you.  
Mr. Nosenko. I do not have it.  
(Pause)  
Yes, sir.  
Mr. Klein. On the top of page 30, read for us the underlined section on the top, beginning "The next time" --  
Mr. Nosenko. "The next time Nosenko heard of Oswald was in connection with Oswald's application to Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for a Soviet reentry visa. Nosenko did not know how Mexico City advised Moscow of subject's application. His knowledge resulted from an oral inquiry of Nosenko's department by Turalin, Service No. 2, Counterintelligence in Foreign Countries, First Chief Directorate. Nosenko recalled that Turalin had orally contacted Vladimir Alexeev, Chief of Sixth Section of Nosenko's Tourist Department, with respect to Oswald. Nosenko's department had no interest in Oswald and they recommended that Oswald's request for reentry visa be denied. Nosenko couldn't recall when Oswald visited Mexico City in connection with visa application."  
Mr. Klein. Did you ever say this to an FBI agent?  
Mr. Nosenko. I do not remember. I must be I said it, it's here in document.  
Mr. Klein. It says in here that Nosenko did not know how Mexico City advised Moscow of subject's application. Did you say that?  
Mr. Nosenko. Must be; I said this in this way.  
Mr. Klein. And did you tell us that not only did you know how they advised them by cable but that you read the cable?  
Mr. Nosenko. This is what I recollection.  
Mr. Klein. Did you tell them the truth?  
Mr. Nosenko. I was trying to tell what I remembered.  
Mr. Klein. And this FBI report which you just read from, would you look back on the first page and would you tell us the date of that report?  
Mr. Nosenko. Fifth of March, 1964.  
Mr. Klein. March 5, 1964. Is that before April 4, 1964?  
Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.  
Mr. Klein. That was before any hostile interrogations began, is that correct?  
Mr. Nosenko. Yes.  
Mr. Klein. And at that time you said that you did not know anything about the cable, is that right?  
Mr. Nosenko. This is what I answered them, how I remembered.  
Mr. Klein. I have a question. Do you understand from what psychological turmoil a person, passing who defected, do you understand that it is necessary time, time to settle psychologically, he doesn't know how he will be living, what he will be doing, and at the same time a person feels attitude on the part of those who helped him to come CIA? I felt something going on.  
Mr. Klein. You testified to us today that you didn't know how wrote the summary of Oswald's file in the First Department because you never had an opportunity to read it. Did you ever tell anybody that Fedroseve and Matveev, F-e-d-r-o-s-e-v-e and M-a-t-v-e-e-v of the First Department, Second Chief Directorate, took the file and wrote a second "spravka", which you told us was a summary?  
Mr. Nosenko. Summary.  
Mr. Klein. Did you ever tell anybody that?  
Mr. Nosenko. Must be I told, it is again right, because you see, not Fedroseve -- Fedroseve was Chief of First Department, American Department, and I will repeat what I told you yesterday. Matveev has come to take file, but surely Fedroseve, who is Chief of American Department, he had given call to Chief of Seventh Department. He was involved in this; that is why I mentioned him. He was Chief of First American Department. His deputy, Colonel Matveev, has come, and not alone; with him was a couple of officers, has come and told that Gribanov ordered and Fedroseve giving call to Department, we must take it, and took. Who of them wrote, I do not know, no doubts that Fedroseve and Matveev were participated in the preparation of documents.  
They are responsible for First American Department.  
Mr. Klein. So you have an idea of who would have written, is that correct?  
Mr. Nosenko. American Department, no doubts that this two will be participating or correcting.  
Mr. Klein. But you didn't read that summary, is that right?  
Mr. Nosenko. I do not remember reading the summary.  
Mr. Klein. Did you read it? Do you have any recollection of reading it?  
Mr. Nosenko. No, I haven't seen summary.  
Mr. Klein. Are you positive that you didn't see that summary written by the First Department after they took the file away?  
Mr. Nosenko. I do not remember seeing. As I told you, I haven't seen it.  
Mr. Klein. You testified that Oswald was considered normal prior to the time he cut his wrist, and even told us that you were surprised, you had no indication he would do something like that.  
Were you ever asked the following question, and did you give the following answer:  
"In what way was the Oswald case handled differently from cases of other American defectors?"  
Answer: The main difference is that he was not to be allowed to stay. He was considered to be not normal.  
Mr. Nosenko. This is what cases I know, who were staying.  
Mr. Klein. Did you ever say that he was considered not normal, referring to the period before he tried to commit suicide?  
Mr. Nosenko. I do not remember; but if I said it, it's not right because we didn't know that he was normal or not normal. Up until the moment he cut his wrist we started to suspect.  
Mr. Klein. Did you ever say that he was considered not normal?  
Mr. Nosenko. Sir, I do not remember.  
Mr. Klein. Well, if